NAME
    yellowdot - create an image file containing yellow dots

SYNOPSIS
    yellowdot --paper letter --filename overlay.png

    Options:

            --paper                 size of paper (letter or A4)

            --filename              name of output file

DESCRIPTION
    For years, commercial printers have quietly inserted yellow dots into
    their output for the purpose of tracking which printer was used to
    create any document. The purpose of the "yellowdot" software is simply
    to bring attention to the issue, and to thwart amateur attempts to use
    these yellow dots to breach privacy.

    This software will create a PNG containing yellow dots that can then be
    overlaid onto existing printer output. These dots are randomly
    distributed across the image, and are therefore not useful for securely
    obfuscating the identity that is encoded within the printer's generated
    dot pattern. However, "yellowdot" raises the amount of resources that
    must be expended to successfully identify the printer that generated a
    given document. It is hoped that "yellowdot" can be used to thwart
    amateur attempts to breach privacy, such as could conceivably be
    practiced in an office environment.

    The commercial printer yellow dot initiative has been endorsed in some
    capacity by the United States Secret Service for the purpose of
    thwarting currency counterfeiting. As of October 2008, there is no law
    that requires printers to generate yellow dots for any purpose,
    including identification purposes. This software is not intended to be
    used for committing fraud, and it is the belief of the author that this
    software, in fact, cannot be used for such purposes. By analyzing a
    sufficient sample of printer output, the "noise" that is generated by
    this program can be eliminated, and the original printer source can be
    reconstructed.

OPTIONS
    --paper
                Two paper sizes are currently supported: letter and A4.  Only
                300 DPI is supported, so the paper size option results in the 
                creation of a bitmap that will fill a complete side of the
                indicated paper type, when printed at 300 DPI.

    --filename
                The output will be stored in a file with this name.  It 
                should end in .png or .PNG, since that is the only format 
                supported now.  However, using another extension won't 
                ruin anything.

    --density
                not implemented yet

    --margin
                not implemented yet

DOWNLOAD
    <http://iandennismiller.com/software/yellowdot/yellowdot>

INSTALLATION
    chmod 755 yellowdot

    sudo mv yellowdot /usr/local/bin

    sudo cpan -i GD

SEE ALSO
    <http://w2.eff.org/Privacy/printers/docucolor/>

    <http://frotz.zork.net/pipermail/printers/>

    <http://frotz.zork.net/pipermail/printers/2007-April/000098.html>

    <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printer_steganography>

    <http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/10/18/AR20051
    01801663.html>

AUTHOR
    Ian Dennis Miller <iandennismiller@gmail.com>

    <http://iandennismiller.com/software/yellowdot>

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 2008 Ian Dennis Miller

LICENSE
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
    "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
    without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
    distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
    permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
    the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. Except as
    contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright holders
    shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
    or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
    OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
    CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
    TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
    SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

